None of them can be trusted of course, The Ones From Far Away, they are all so far from what we can consider thinking beings, all more interested, if you can even call it that, in their own obscure ends than anything that could even begin to enter our awareness. But some are more up front then others yes? 

The All-Mother, She Who Shines With The Dark, she will never Lie, LIe LIE so to speak. She finds those who are alone and grants them The Understanding. The One Truth they could hope for from one such as she. That they are alone. That They Have Always Been Alone. That there is nothing for them but them. OF course she obscures this behind The niceties and the assurances that of course SHE will never leave, that SHE will stand by them until the end of it. (never to mention that she is *OBVIOUSLY* The End Of It. That she is the loneliness, the emptiness at the end of time. The space between the stars ) to hold her company is of course to hold oneself as a companion to the No One.

You would be WRONG WRONG WRONG to believe that The Whale Fall is her Lying Half. Not Unjust in your belief but WRONG nonetheless. The Dust That Floats to The Bottom of course makes no intents to obscure The Truth at the End of Time. It , He , Them simply holds a perspective of below not above, knowing that all that is must go SOMEWHERE for the Nothing to remain. The Decay of course is where they must go, Where It All Goes. So it does not lie when it says it will wait. It must wait, that is all it can do (barring the few active agents in the root and the deep below) we of course are all to be one in the Falling Rot. Doomed to Fall to Rot Rot ROT

The King is her opposite in this way. He OBSCURES The Truth. hiding behind His promises of ruling, of control. He demands that which He cannot have but secures it nonetheless in his grasp of the dreaming. It tells you that He will lend you his crown, that you will sit between The Sky and The Rot. That after The Chasm falls and The Dark has no more corners to hide you will reign over some great kingdom that remains, His great kingdom. This of course  —*obviously*— is nothing more than fantasy, what else could the Dreamlord offer but lies and illusion? No he simply wishes for your mind while there is Still. So He may lavish in His ochre tower and shine His Piss Light into the dark and say He is King. He does love The Ones in the Mud, they need so much more hope, so much more comfort than His lying brothers or truthing sisters may offer them. His lies mimic their warmth and hold them much *much* tighter it their grip.

A much colder home (Still A Liar) is his sister The Teeth. Her hold is looser (for now) and lets her lovelies slip their own way into it. She is the promise of escape ripped away. The knowing their is just one more turn until the light, that the walls could not possibly be closing in. That you must have come to this ca(g|v)e from somewhere. Her grip is perhaps the hardest to shake for she so rarely finds one who will love her as she is that she must *force* that love when one stumbles to her side, to her table (oh does she feast). She gives nothing if not time to think. To think that if this to her is love what perhaps is her hate (may it be the sky?). She does not think herself a liar but oh do wait to meet her paramours and hear their tales of her twists and turns.

She has a cousin, of course, of course they are all cousins, or siblings or sibling-wives to some new terror thing, and He is The Dark. The kindness of oblivion. Where his sister in the sky promises that there is nothing. He gives obscureness and in the veil of his kindness he promises nothing (he would never be so cruel) he simply whispers, hands on shoulders,

**"Maybe There is Something"**

it feels a cold comfort, perhaps a threat in the vagaries and refusal to tell for sure. But, perhaps that lie is comfort nonetheless to those who find themselves in that port hole to the Space Below (A Kindness But A liar no matter what)

The Comfort of Not Knowing Must be alien to those of The Wrath. For to them the dark is naught but a tool for striking, for proving to the Brood Queen that you are the most worthy of her blood. That you undeniably deserve to be The Last. She of course does not lie (how could she) strength does not deceive, it does not hide, waits maybe, but that is none thing to worry