Caladbolg was born into slavery. For as long as anyone in his family can remember, the cruel [[Dragonborn]] [[Oillipheist, The Glutton]] had held them in perpetual servitude. For the earlier years of his life. Caladbolg served as a manservant and manual laborer for [[Oillipheist, The Glutton|Oillipheist]], waiting on him hand and foot, or building monuments and leisure areas to tend the great beast's grand appetite for luxury.

As Caladbolg grew stronger however, [[Oillipheist, The Glutton|Oillipheist]] would find new use for him as a direct instrument of the monster's violent will and insatiable hunger. Joining the other young men of his commune. Caladbolg would be sent on raids against neighboring Locathah settlements, retrieving food, treasure, and occasionally, villagers to sate his master's thirst for blood and wealth.

Eventually, after years of enacting violence upon smaller creatures, Caladbolg's ego would grow past the bounds of his servitude, and he and his teammates would hatch a plan to defeat their master and grant freedom to their village. The plan was simple, during their raids, the young men would squirrel away whatever pieces of [[Oceanic Mythril]] they could find, and once they had enough, they would build a rudimentary explosive and deliver it to [[Oillipheist, The Glutton|Oillipheist]] as new plunder from their most recent raid. They hoped that the explosion alone would be enough to kill the foul beast, but were prepared to finish the job on their own in the event that it only weakened him.

On the day the plan was to be enacted. Caladbolg followed his friends into their lord's chambers, They presented the weapon as though it were any other piece of treasure. But, just as they were about to trigger the bomb, [[Oillipheist, The Glutton|Oillipheist]]'s eyes widened, and he batted the bomb away towards the cave wall. As it detonated, it blew a hole in the room and the violent outside currents sucked Caladbolg out into the greater blue. The last thing he saw of his friends was their blood as they were torn to pieces by their enraged master.

From that day onward, Caladbolg would resolve to grow his strength to that of an apex predator, then one day return to his old home and liberate his people from the cruel grip of their draconic overlord