Once one of the heads of the floating city of [[Sacratiz]], Isos commanded terror in any who were to visit him. He wasn’t known to be needlessly cruel, but his curiosity was boundless, as was his endless desire to cement his name into [[Evertide]], desiring to control even the tides themselves. Countless patients sent to him for violating order or otherwise, with each one being altered either physically, mentally, or esoterically. One day, Isos decided to augment himself: the pinnacle of his research, a direct connection to [[The Great Torrent]], granting him power even [[The Water Genasi|Genasi]] sorcerers couldn’t dream of Attaining. However, the procedure required he be incapacitated, giving those who wished an end to his torment an opportunity. As soon as he completed his transformation, they slit his throat and threw him into the tides, his body covered in metal contraptions sinking deep, down into [[The Blue]]. Despite their best efforts though, he lived. With the ritual being interrupted, though, he was left a barren version of his former self. No memories, and a strong, yet still incomplete connection to [[The Great Torrent]]. He was recovered by a scouting troop of [[The Vedalken|Vedalken]], and taken to their camp, where they treated him with hospitality and curiosity. They also gave him a name: [Cyalume], after his glow-like hue. There, his curiosity was ignited once again, though under a different light. He spent the first few months there re-learning language, as well as educating himself on the goings on of the world, and various religions. He also became more and more curious of his past as time went on: a scar across his neck, proof of the life he once lived. After a few more months of research and preparation, he set out into the waters, hoping to find somebody to explain his past, and further avenues of exploration to sate his endless curiosity.