Like many of her ilk, the story of Santiana's childhood is one of nearly unending hardships. Born to one of many [[The Humans|human]] fleets in [[Evertide]], her family died in a storm when she was only 10. After a few months adrift on the open sea, she would be saved by a ragtag group of lost children, and meet [[Calidan the Uniter|Calidan]], at this point merely a boy of 13. 

As years went on, Santiana would begin to take on a caretaker's role within their newly formed fleet, managing the logistics of sleeping quarters and food rations, ensuring that no mouth went unfed. It was this duty that eventually led her to conflict with [[Calidan the Uniter|Calidan]], whose laissez-faire approach to recruitment and adoption often strained the capacity of the fleet's limited resources. After an intense row, the two came to an agreement.  Calidan would function as the group's leader, leveraging the trust the other children held for him and his own natural charisma, and Santiana would effectively be the quartermaster, Giving final call on the logistics and planning for the group, and turning Calidan's goals into plans.

This system held for quite a while, but as they saved more and more people, as their fleet grew larger and larger, it became apparent that the nomadic life that they had been living would become unsustainable. Late at night, after pouring over the months rationing and work schedules, the pair would indulge in some wine brought in by a Triton merchant, and the beginnings of [[The Nascent Shore]] would begin to form.

At the start, [[The Nascent Shore]] didn't have a particular goal, just a group of people united by their collective longing for a home. Santiana however, ever the tactician, began to look towards what this ragtag group of survivors could actually accomplish and came away with a few goals.

First, they would find somewhere temporary, either carving out a niche in the mangroves, or anchoring a boat far out into the blue. Then, from their new base of operations, they would begin to chase the rumors they had heard from the native Tortles. According to some of the older members of local tribes, Evertide used to be much drier than it is now. At the time it had drifted further from the plane of water, and parts of the cliffs poked above the tides for the first time in millennia. 