Unhappy with their beliefs and way of life, Tyfu left [[The Tortles]] at 150. After learning of the other varying beliefs and philosophies of [[Evertide]], he decided that he would be better off adapting the world around him rather than holding onto hope for [[Vuld fånge|a future]] he may never see. His initial plan was to join a Vedalken Colony on [[The Terraced Cliffs]]. However,
shortly after leaving [[The Mangrove Swamps]] as he delved deeper into the Blue, dehydration an malnourishment took hold. In his feverish state he witnessed a whalefall of a dozen or more, all falling to [[The Deep Black]].
This experience changed Tyfu. He became enamored with the concept that all will meet the same end. The idea that nothing, even the most powerful beings in [[Evertide]] can escape the fate that awaits them at the bottom of the sea

This philosophy would take hold of Tyfu, who would spend the next 4 centuries mostly in isolation, observing, learning, allowing his mind to become one with [[Lobhadh|The Rot]]. After a pilgrimage to [[The Deep Black]] that solidified his connection to decay, He retreated back to a ramshackle home in the Rootways and became something of a legend among the surrounding tribes. 

Stories of Tyfu's arcane expertise would eventually steer the newly resurrected [[Isos Periergos|Cyalume]] to his doorstep, looking for answers about his past and his place in the world. Upon first meeting, Tyfu found himself fascinated by Cyalume's apparent resistance to the rot and decay that seemed ever-present within [[The Tidepools]]. He elected to keep Cyalume close in a bid to learn more about his condition. 
