[[The Triton|Triton]] [[Pheydren's Creed|myth]] tells of a time long before any air breather walked the sands of [[Evertide]]'s beaches. When the tides were wilder, the current deeper, and the ancient [[The Triton|Triton]] ruled the entirety of [[The Tidepools]]. 

During this time, [[The Triton]] experienced something of a golden age. Their understanding of the biology, and arcana of [[Evertide]] expanded beyond any culture before or since. They worshipped the power of [[The Great Torrent]] and used its power and benevolence to fuel their ever growing scholarly pursuits. But at the edges of their understanding, shadows lurked. Across the ocean floor, reports rang out of vile murders, enormous beasts, and strange outbursts of mass psychosis. Eventually entire colonies would go dark in a single night. It became clear to [[The Triton|Triton]] leadership that they were at war, whether they knew their enemy or not. Armies began deployment to any town where strange occurrences were reported. Murderers were apprehended and interrogated, and the scholars of [[The Triton]] king began to understand the scope of the evil they faced.

[[The Dorsh'hanin]] had, for the first time in the history of [[Evertide]], emerged. Dark tendrils of their power had crept their way into nearly every city, and small cults had begun rituals to pull their masters closer to this plane. Clerics of [[The Great Torrent|The Torrent]] attempted to fight their reach, blessing the homes of those driven mad, healing the sick and wounded, and praying that their civilization be saved.

Their prayers would eventually be answered. Deep in the bowels of [[Evertide]], emanations of the torrent coalesced into Pheydren, The Will of the Torrent. After reaching the surface, he took charge of the offensive, organizing the remaining armies of [[The Triton|Triton]], and teaching them the runes and rituals required to seal off [[Evertide]] from the influence of [[The Dorsh'hanin]].

Years of hard fought battles would follow, and Pheydren could be found on nearly every front, batting back new and more potent monstrosities that would pour from [[The Deep Black]], healing the sick and the mad in the many field hospitals that sprang up. The conflict came to a head in one last march against The Black. on the borders of the yawning abyss, Pheydren came to blows against the combined force of all of [[The Dorsh'hanin]], and with one final blow, pushed them out into the darkness that surrounds [[Evertide]]. This victory did not come without sacrifice however, and Pheydren would pass from his wounds soon after.

Pheydren's legacy lay not only in his defense of [[The Triton]] homeland, during his time on [[Evertide]] The Will of the Torrent would leave a slew of magical artifacts in his wake, shed during battles, or gifted to noble warriors who fought beside him. He also changed the face of [[The Triton|Triton]] society, as their people were now charged with the job of protecting the reef from any new incursions. 
