*(Alaikaḷiṉ vaḻi)*

Due to their diasporic nature, [[The Locathah]] practice a variety of different faiths, the collection of which is known as “The Way of the Tide”. Broadly speaking, [[The Locathah]] practice a form of animism, the belief that each rock, stone, plant, and animal, is in and of itself sacred, and their rituals and lifestyle tend to honor that. What differentiates most tribes of Locathah is which specific spirit they primarily worship.
### Kattil: 
[[The Kattil Locathah]] of [[The Rootways]] worship the mangrove trees on which they rely, as well as the various anemone that cling to its knotted roots. They are vigilant in their duties. During the low tides, when the roots are exposed to the air. They drape the roots with huge fronds of kelp and petals to keep them moist, and when their tribemates pass during low tide, they perform ceremonies to bury them within the roots and return their nutrients to the plant which provides them their livelihood. During high tide, they shift their worship to the [[Bromeliad Anemone]] which opens under the sea. They sacrifice portions of their meals in exchange for protection from the various predators that stalk the flooded roots. Besides what they need for protection, they also adorn these anemones with the precious gems and shells that work their way through the limestone.
### Kukai: 
Hardened by the beasts which stalk [[The Lower Pools|the abyssal depths]], [[The Kukai Locathah]] worship the rocks and caves which give them shelter. They adorn the entrances of caves with the bones and detritus that drift down from above, as well as the luminescent algae that they cultivate to light the dark. Oddly enough, despite their reverence to the caves, the Kukai mostly practice their faith through the acceptance of others into their subterranean communities as they believe that every cave wishes to shelter people and in bringing more into the fold, they please the caves and bring fortune to their communities.
### Karayorim:
The Karayorim, with their relatively easy way of life on the [[The White Coast]] of The Tide Pools, focus their rituals on the giant clams and oysters which provide them with food. Most of their rituals then are involved in the preparation of these creatures for consumption, ensuring that the shell is cleaned to a mirror shine, the pearls harvested before their deaths and that the animal is given food and comfort before being quickly and humanely slaughtered. After the cooking process is complete, the inner carcass is cleaned thoroughly to prevent any rot, and the shell is harvested to be repurposed into tools, weapons, armor, and jewelry.
### Motai:
Lauded by outside “spiritualists” as the purest variant of the Way of The Tides, [[The Motai Locathah|The Motai]] dedicate their practice to the tides themselves. During their time at the top of [[The Terraced Cliffs]], they will cast portions of their meals into [[The Deep Black]] as sacrifices to keep the tides calm and kind. In the volcanic lakes that cling to the walls, they scratch runes and prayers into the rocks so that the tide may provide them with the luck they need to survive. [[The Motai Locathah]] are an incredibly nomadic people, even by the standards of the Locathah. But despite this, almost every member of a Motai commune, always carries with them their birthwater, an egg casing surrounding a drop of water from the tide pool they were born in. These are of incredible significance to the Motai as they believe that that water is what connects them to the life around them and what allows them to perform the miracles their people have become so famous for.